# Exploratory-Analysis-NBA-2016-2017-Season-

I. About the Data:
The data is for 2016-17 NBA season. The NBA season starts in October and ended in June. The GSW (Golden State Warriors) won the NBA finals on June 12, 2017 by 4-1 in the best of 7-game series beating Cleveland Cavaliers. Note that there are two rows for each game. For example, the row 2 and row 24 are both for the same game which was played on October 26, 2016 between Miami and Orlando. The statistics provided in columns K through AB are for the team listed in Column A. Meaning, you will need both rows for each game to get team statistics for both teams. Also, the TeamScr (Column G) is the points scored by team listed in Column A. And, the OppScr (Column H) has the points scored by team listed in Column D.


the report is trying to answer this following question:

i. Page 1: A one page summary of the overall findings. What did you find in the data which 	would be of interest to a basketball fan or to the NBA executives?
ii. Page 2: A one-page summary for the New Orleans (Pelicans) fans. What worked and what did 	not for Pelicans? What are the keys to success for Pelicans? And, what are key characteristics 	when Pelicans lost? The data analytics needs to be more rigorous/informative than obvious 	statements like—make more shots, rebound well and do not turn the ball over! Just to give an 	example, a statement like “For home games, Pelicans won xx% of their games when they had yy 	more rebounds 	their opponents, whereas for road games….”. 
iii. The page 3 of the report would be used for reporting the fitting of regression models to 	predict the scores of both teams. The GameType (Column I) is 1 for regular-season games and 2 	for the playoff games. Fit an appropriate regression model to predict the scores for the regular 	season games. Then use this regression model to predict the scores of the playoff games. In 	particular, use your fitted regression model to predict the scores of the five games which were 	played in NBA finals between Golden State Warriors and Cleveland Cavaliers. Also, report on the	any changes between the regular season and playoff’s final series Golden State Warriors and 	Cleveland Cavaliers—did the teams get better or worse in finals? Justify with statistics.
